README.MD, before:

# FeynCalc

FeynCalc is a Mathematica package for algebraic calculations in elementary particle physics.

For a descrition of FeynCalc, please see http://www.feyncalc.org/.

# License

This software is covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License 3.

Copyright (C) 1990-2014 Rolf Mertig
Copyright (C) 1997-2014 Frederik Orellana
Copyright (C) 2014      Vladyslav Shtabovenko

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Installation

## Stable version

* To obtain the latest **stable** version of FeynCalc go to the [release](https://github.com/FeynCalc/feyncalc/releases) section
and download the most recent *Release_X_X_X_X.zip* file. Copy the
*FeynCalc* directory from the zip file in the directory to which *$UserAddOnsDirectory* is set (evaluate *$UserAddOnsDirectory* in Mathematica).

* Start Mathematica.
* Choose 'Rebuild Help Index' from the 'Help' menu.
* Type

    ```<<HighEnergyPhysics`FeynCalc` ```

    open the help browser and try out some of the examples.

## Development version

* To obtain the latest **development** version of FeynCalc use git to clone
the public FeynCalc repository

    `git clone https://github.com/FeynCalc/feyncalc.git`

* Please note that the development version may contain bugs and incomplete or untested features.

# Changelog

### Version 8.2.0 (2012)

* Added **FeynArts** 3.7 - unpatched. On first load it will be patched automatically.
* When running the first time set *$LoadPHI=True* before executing
  Needs``` [HighEnergyPhysics`FeynCalc`]```,  then it will be patched automatically.
* Updated **PHI** to work with **FeynArts-3.7**, which can now be kept in a subdir.

###Version 8.1.0.1 (2012)

* Updated **PHI** to work with **FeynArts-3.7**, which can now be kept in a subdir.

### Version 8.1.0. (2012)

* Fixed *DiracTrick*.
* Improved *SUNSimplify*, *DiracEquation*.
* Fixed Hyperlinks in *FeynCalc8.nb*.
* Fixed Tarcer .mx loading.

### Version 8.0.3 (2011)

* Added ClearAttributes *[FeynAmpDenominator,Orderless]*
* Added Momentum in *DiracSimplify*

### Version 8.0.2 (2011)

* Fixed more problems.
* Working on documentation.

### Version 8.0.1 (2011)

* Fixed a problem in *DiracTrace.*

### Version 8.0.0beta3 (2011)

* Fixed a bug in *OneLoop*.
* Changed *Uncontract*, *TID*.

### Version 8.0.0 (2011)

* Fixed some bugs reported by ibedir.

### Version 8.0.0 (2010)

* Minimal updates for **Mathematica 8.0**.
* Added a patched o **FeynArts 3.4**.

### Version 7.0.0 (2009/2010)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 7.0** and new **FeynArts**.

### Version 6.0.0 (2007)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 6.0** and new **FeynArts**.
* For **Mathematica 6** only. Rolf patched **FeynCalc** to be compatible with **Mathematica 6** (not **PHI**, not **FeynArts**) and zipped it together, including fully evaluated documentation notebooks in *HighEnergyPhysics/Documentation/English/*. Notice that this version does not load **PHI** nor **FeynArts** by default. Notice also that the changes are not entered into CVS yet, due to lack of time.

### Version 5.1.0 (2006)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 5.2** and new **FeynArts**.

### Version 5.0.0b (2003)

* Bug fixes.
* Adjustments for **Mathematica 5.0**.
* More reorganization by Frederik Orellana.
* Inclusion of help system, **PHI** and **FeynArts**.

### Version 4.9.beta (2002)

* Improved *DiracOrder*.
* Added *FeynCalcToLaTeX*.
* Fixed the cyclicity problem with *Gamma[5]*.
* Simplified installation mechanism.
* Fixed things for **Mathematica 5.0** and **FeynArts** and patching and all that.
* Other bugfixes.

### Version 4.2.0 (2002)

* Changed to use *DOT* everywhere instead of *DOT*.
* **FeynArts 3** support: Exclude *ShapeData* from autoloading.
* Keep *PolarizationVector* unevaluated when given **FeynArts** arguments.
* Added support for other multiplications than *DOT*.
* Added *FieldDerivative* and *CovariantFieldDerivative*.
* Added *$Multiplications*, *$DistributiveFunctions* and *$Containers* to allow customization of *FieldDerivative*.
* *DOT* moved into main context.
* Have *ExpandScalarProduct* expand also *Pair[LorentzIndex[mu], Momentum[a] * Momentum [b] +...]*.
* Small bug fix of *FourVector*: *fci* not defined.
* *IsolateHead* dropped. *IsolateNames* used instead everwhere.
* Some more box definitions for *PartialD*.
* Split *FeynCalcBook.nb* in two.
* New directory *fcdevel* with files under development (or just unfinished).
* New directory *fcloops* with (1,2) loop related files.
* Changed usage into *"usage"*.
* Had *Contract* contract also denominators.
* Moved *Vectors* into context ```FORM2FeynCalc` ```.
* Moved *FORMEpilog*, *FORMProlog* and *TraceDimension* into context *FeynCalc2FORM*
* Fixed Breit-Maison problem of *FeynCalcInternal*.
* Had *FeynRule* and *FunctionalD* know about *ExplicitSUNIndex*.
* Dropped ```Global` ``` symbols in *SquareAmplitude*.
* Small bug fix in *Uncontract*.
* Let Uncontract accept option *Dimension -> Automatic*.
* Have *Uncontract* uncontract also denominators.
* Changed option of *A0* *A0ToB0* from *True* to *False*.
* Code moved from *FeynCalc.m* to new files; should improve maintainability.
* Moved *SUNSimplify.m*  and *SUNTrace.m* from *qcd* to *fctools*,
*qcd/InverseMellin.m* -> *fctables/InverseMellin.m* and
*qcd/ToLarin.m* -> *fctools/ToLarin.m* (corrections of Rolf).
* Moved a few more files to more logical places.
* Changed usage to *"usage"* everywhere.
* Moved *IsolagePrint* and *IsolateSplit* into context *Isolate*.
* Changed *QCDScaleMu* into *ScaleMu*.
* Dropped *SUNF2*.
* Changed option of *SUNSimplify* *SUNTrace* from *True* to *False*.
* Made *SUNSimplify* trace also term proportional to the identity matrix when
* *SUNTrace* is set to *True*.
* *FeynCalc.m*:
    * Added support for *:>* to *OptionsSelect*.
    * Placed *FDr* and *CDr* in correct contexts.
    * Bugfixed check for integer arguments in *SUND* and *SUNDeltaContract: Added ExplicitSUNIndex*.
    * *SUND*: No longer set all *SUND[a,a,b]* to *0* if a is not an integer, only when
   a has head *SUNIndex*.
* *DiracSimplify.m*:  * Defined *print1*, *print2*, *print3*
* *OneLoop.m*: Changed a few debug printing statements.
* Fixed *SumOver* to comply with **FeynArts 3**.
* **PHI**:
    * As far as possible dropped using explicit contexts, use *MakeContext* instead.
    * Small fix of *ArgumentsSupply*.
    * Moved *FieldDerivative* and *CovariantFieldDerivative* (and *CDr* and *FDr*) into *HighEnergyPhysics/fctools/*.
    * Implemented compatibility with **FeynCalc**'s *PartialD*-operator notation.
    * Removed many comments. They don't give useful information and clutter things.
    * Changed the possible settings of *B0Evaluation* to strings to facilitate extensibility and reduce the number of defined symbols.
    * Introduced *LeutwylerJBarEvaluation* instead of *ExplicitLeutwylerJBar*.
    * Implemented above-threshold evaluation of *VeltmanB0* (and *LeutwylerJBar*).
    * Dropped *FANonCommutative*, *FAMetricTensorm*, *FAPolarizationVector*, *FAFourVector*, *FADiracMatrix*, *FAIndices*  in favour of *NonCommutative* in consistence with *FAPatch.m*.
    * Had *FAPatch.m* add *$FermionHeads* to *$NonCommuting* in *Setup.m*,
   as well as set *FeynCalcInternal -> False* for *FourVector*, *MetricTensor*,
   *DiracSlash*.
    * End all usage difinitions with a full stop.
    * Changed *Dot* to *DOT*.
* *Objects.m*:
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices*.
    * Changed to have head *ExplicitSUNIndex* on integers (instead of nothing) in compliance with **FeynCalc**.
    * *setLeftRightComponents* fixed to have *Explicit* in right context.
    * Fixed bug in *WriteOutUMatrices* causing *NM[a[x], UMatrix[b]] + UMatrix[UIdentity]* not to work (reported by P.Buettiker).
    * Fixed bug in *UIndicesSupply*, putting *DOT* in correct context.
    * Fixed bug in *UExp* (reported by Paul Buettiker):
      When zeros were in *$UExpansionCoefficients MM*, *UFieldMatrix* didn't work.
* *Utilities.m*:
    * Added support for *WFFactor* in *DiscardOrders* (Don't discard if order is not known).
    *  *MandelstamReduce* now has renormalized masses as default.
    *  Added first sketch of *PHIToLaTeX*.
* Palettes.m: LoadLagrangian now keeps lagrangians given as strings in context ``` Global` ``` (instead of ``` HighEnergyPhysics`PHI`Objects` ``` ).
* *Renormalization.m*:
    * Fixed small bug causing LeutwylerJBar causing problem with LeutwylerSigma.
    * Readded *C0Evaluation -> "none"*, *D0Evaluation -> "none"* to *Options[VeltmanExpand]*.
* *Couplings.m*:
    * Added *PHIModel* as option of *WFFactor*, *PMFactor*, *DCFactor*.
    * Added *Drop* as option of *DoSumOver*.
    * Fixed problem with *FCToFA* causing possible substitution of multiple pairs of identical indices in a product.
    * Added *DiracSlash* to *FCToFA*.
    * Dropped *Projection* in *FCToFA*, since *RemoveIntegerIndices* has been dropped.
    * Fixed bug in *XName* causing existing coupling vectors not to be found.
    * Fixed bug in *VerticesSpecifications*. Multiple order of a coupling are now correctly merged into e.g. one coupling with orders {2, 4} instead of two couplings. (*orderJoin*).
    * Fixed problem with *DiscardCT* and **FeynArts 3** .
    * Fixed bug in *FixCouplingIndices*. *SUNDelta*, *SUND* and *SUNF* are now also supported in coupling vectors.
    * Updated *DoSumOver* to comply with **FeynArts 3**.
    * Improved *WFFactor*, *DCFactor* and *PMFactor* to behave better if a file is not there.
    * *DCRenormalize* now correctly uses the inverse factor.

* *Channels.m*
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices* and *Projection*.
    * Fixed bug with *SU2F* in *SUNReduce*.
    * Added support for *ExplicitSUNIndex*.
* *PHIStart.m*
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices*.
    * Switched to *UNablaHatDelta* with "scalar weak source", remember to switch back if vectors or axial-vectors are needed.
*  *ChPTW34.m*: Fix missing comma in N29.
*  *ChPTW32.m*: Fix Typo (``` QuantumField` ``` instead of ```QuantumField```).


###  Version 4.1.1 (2001)
* Help System: Following the instructions above, the FeynCalc Book is now viewable via the
Mathematica help browser. It is possible to look up help pages on individual
functions by selecting them in a notebook with the cursor and then clicking
on AddOns in the help browser.
* **PHI/FeynArts**: Support for **FeynArts** through the new sub-package **PHI**, which is now fully integrated in **FeynCalc**. **PHI** adds support for Chiral Perturbation Theory including tools for dealing with a large number of Feynman rules, derivative couplings, field expansion, etc. Moreover, some examples of using **PHI** are provided which should also be generally instructive. The examples can be found at
http://www.feyncalc.org/examples/index.html. Information about **PHI** can be found at http://www.feyncalc.org/examples/phi/index.html.
* The *ReadProtected* Attribute has been removed from all functions.
* Moved the file *FeynCalcBook.nb* into the new directory *English* and
added the file *BrowserCategories.m* to allow lookup via the
Mathematica help browser.
* Changes in *FeynCalc.m*:
    * All **FeynCalc** definitions are now cleared upon reload,
  hopefully improved the way filenames and paths are determined,
    * Added support for loading from *~/.Mathematica*.
    * Added support for loading **PHI** and FeynArts.
    * Added *$Abbreviations*.
    * Added a few definitions to *DeltaFunction*.
    * Fixed bug in *DiracTrace* reported by A. Kyrieleis.
    * Fixed bug in *DiracTrace* causing *Tr[DiracSlash[p,p]]* to give p^2 instead of 4 p^2 (reported by W. Broniowski and L. Trueman and A. Krishna).
    * Fixed small display bug of *Spinor* reported by A. Krishna.
    * Added *FCIntegrate* and *FCNIntegrate* which are options of the new
  (still experimental) function *FeynmanDoIntegrals* fixed bug in the display definition for *Pair* causing infinite recursion.
   * Added two new functions (still very experimental) *FeynmanReduce* and *FeynmanDoIntegrals*.
   * Very small addition to *Integrate2*.
   * Added option *InitialFunction* to *FeynRule*.
   * Fixed bug in *ComplexConjugate*'s treatment of *DiracGamma[5]*,
reported by T.Rashba and V. Khotilovich.
   * Fixed bugs related to Mac OS's filesystem in *FeynCalc.m*, *FORM2FeynCalc.m*, *FeynCalc2FORM.m*, *OneLoop.m*, *PaVeReduce.m*, *RHI.m*, *SquareAmplitude.m*, *Write2.m*.
   * Fixed bug in *FeynCalc2FORM.m* reported by V. Khotilovich.
   * Fixed forgotten small bugs in *FeynCalcExternal.m*.
   * Changed *FeynCalcExternal.m*, *OneLoopSimplify.m*, *TID.m*
 to allow other symbols for *Dimension* than *D*.
   * Completely rewrote *FeynmanParametrize1.m*. It is still experimental, but in progress and intended to be much more general than *FeynmanParametrize.m*.
   * Small changes in *OneLoop.m*, *PaVeReduce.m* to write out to more readable file names.
   * Fixed forgotten Blank in *SimplifyPolyLog.m*.
   * Added the following new general utility functions:
*NumericQ1*, *Combinations*, *MLimit*, *TimedIntegrate*, *SelectSplit*.
   * Added check for integers in SU(N) related functions.
   * Small change in *TARCER.nb* to avoid name conflict with **FeynCalc** and **FeynArts**.
   * Various very small spelling fixes etc.

### Version 4.0 (2000)
   * Reorganized for open-source and extensibility.

### Version 3.0.1.1
   * Two bug-fixes for *OneLoop*.

### Version 3.0 (1998)
   * Typesetting features of **Mathematica 3.0**.

### Version 2.2beta9 (1995)
* Updated version of **FeynCalc** compatible with **Mathematica 2.2**.

### Version 2.2

### Version 1.13 (1992)

### Version 1.0 (1991)
   * Initial release written by Rolf Mertig.

Commit message:

Added information on the issue tracker and the mailing list

README.MD, after:

# FeynCalc

FeynCalc is a Mathematica package for algebraic calculations in elementary particle physics.

For a descrition of FeynCalc, please see http://www.feyncalc.org/.

# License

This software is covered by the GNU Lesser General Public License 3.

Copyright (C) 1990-2014 Rolf Mertig
Copyright (C) 1997-2014 Frederik Orellana
Copyright (C) 2014      Vladyslav Shtabovenko

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Installation

## Stable version

* To obtain the latest **stable** version of FeynCalc go to the [release](https://github.com/FeynCalc/feyncalc/releases) section
and download the most recent *Release_X_X_X_X.zip* file. Copy the
*FeynCalc* directory from the zip file in the directory to which *$UserAddOnsDirectory* is set (evaluate *$UserAddOnsDirectory* in Mathematica).

* Start Mathematica.
* Choose 'Rebuild Help Index' from the 'Help' menu.
* Type

    ```<<HighEnergyPhysics`FeynCalc` ```

    open the help browser and try out some of the examples.

## Development version

* To obtain the latest **development** version of FeynCalc use git to clone
the public FeynCalc repository

    `git clone https://github.com/FeynCalc/feyncalc.git`

* Please note that the development version may contain bugs and incomplete or untested features.

# Bugs

To report bugs please use our [issue tracker](https://github.com/FeynCalc/feyncalc/issues) on GitHub.

# Mailing list

For questions and discussions concerning FeynCalc you can use our [mailing list](http://www.feyncalc.org/forum/).


# Changelog

### Version 8.2.0 (2012)

* Added **FeynArts** 3.7 - unpatched. On first load it will be patched automatically.
* When running the first time set *$LoadPHI=True* before executing
  Needs``` [HighEnergyPhysics`FeynCalc`]```,  then it will be patched automatically.
* Updated **PHI** to work with **FeynArts-3.7**, which can now be kept in a subdir.

###Version 8.1.0.1 (2012)

* Updated **PHI** to work with **FeynArts-3.7**, which can now be kept in a subdir.

### Version 8.1.0. (2012)

* Fixed *DiracTrick*.
* Improved *SUNSimplify*, *DiracEquation*.
* Fixed Hyperlinks in *FeynCalc8.nb*.
* Fixed Tarcer .mx loading.

### Version 8.0.3 (2011)

* Added ClearAttributes *[FeynAmpDenominator,Orderless]*
* Added Momentum in *DiracSimplify*

### Version 8.0.2 (2011)

* Fixed more problems.
* Working on documentation.

### Version 8.0.1 (2011)

* Fixed a problem in *DiracTrace.*

### Version 8.0.0beta3 (2011)

* Fixed a bug in *OneLoop*.
* Changed *Uncontract*, *TID*.

### Version 8.0.0 (2011)

* Fixed some bugs reported by ibedir.

### Version 8.0.0 (2010)

* Minimal updates for **Mathematica 8.0**.
* Added a patched o **FeynArts 3.4**.

### Version 7.0.0 (2009/2010)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 7.0** and new **FeynArts**.

### Version 6.0.0 (2007)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 6.0** and new **FeynArts**.
* For **Mathematica 6** only. Rolf patched **FeynCalc** to be compatible with **Mathematica 6** (not **PHI**, not **FeynArts**) and zipped it together, including fully evaluated documentation notebooks in *HighEnergyPhysics/Documentation/English/*. Notice that this version does not load **PHI** nor **FeynArts** by default. Notice also that the changes are not entered into CVS yet, due to lack of time.

### Version 5.1.0 (2006)

* Bug fixes.
* Updates for **Mathematica 5.2** and new **FeynArts**.

### Version 5.0.0b (2003)

* Bug fixes.
* Adjustments for **Mathematica 5.0**.
* More reorganization by Frederik Orellana.
* Inclusion of help system, **PHI** and **FeynArts**.

### Version 4.9.beta (2002)

* Improved *DiracOrder*.
* Added *FeynCalcToLaTeX*.
* Fixed the cyclicity problem with *Gamma[5]*.
* Simplified installation mechanism.
* Fixed things for **Mathematica 5.0** and **FeynArts** and patching and all that.
* Other bugfixes.

### Version 4.2.0 (2002)

* Changed to use *DOT* everywhere instead of *DOT*.
* **FeynArts 3** support: Exclude *ShapeData* from autoloading.
* Keep *PolarizationVector* unevaluated when given **FeynArts** arguments.
* Added support for other multiplications than *DOT*.
* Added *FieldDerivative* and *CovariantFieldDerivative*.
* Added *$Multiplications*, *$DistributiveFunctions* and *$Containers* to allow customization of *FieldDerivative*.
* *DOT* moved into main context.
* Have *ExpandScalarProduct* expand also *Pair[LorentzIndex[mu], Momentum[a] * Momentum [b] +...]*.
* Small bug fix of *FourVector*: *fci* not defined.
* *IsolateHead* dropped. *IsolateNames* used instead everwhere.
* Some more box definitions for *PartialD*.
* Split *FeynCalcBook.nb* in two.
* New directory *fcdevel* with files under development (or just unfinished).
* New directory *fcloops* with (1,2) loop related files.
* Changed usage into *"usage"*.
* Had *Contract* contract also denominators.
* Moved *Vectors* into context ```FORM2FeynCalc` ```.
* Moved *FORMEpilog*, *FORMProlog* and *TraceDimension* into context *FeynCalc2FORM*
* Fixed Breit-Maison problem of *FeynCalcInternal*.
* Had *FeynRule* and *FunctionalD* know about *ExplicitSUNIndex*.
* Dropped ```Global` ``` symbols in *SquareAmplitude*.
* Small bug fix in *Uncontract*.
* Let Uncontract accept option *Dimension -> Automatic*.
* Have *Uncontract* uncontract also denominators.
* Changed option of *A0* *A0ToB0* from *True* to *False*.
* Code moved from *FeynCalc.m* to new files; should improve maintainability.
* Moved *SUNSimplify.m*  and *SUNTrace.m* from *qcd* to *fctools*,
*qcd/InverseMellin.m* -> *fctables/InverseMellin.m* and
*qcd/ToLarin.m* -> *fctools/ToLarin.m* (corrections of Rolf).
* Moved a few more files to more logical places.
* Changed usage to *"usage"* everywhere.
* Moved *IsolagePrint* and *IsolateSplit* into context *Isolate*.
* Changed *QCDScaleMu* into *ScaleMu*.
* Dropped *SUNF2*.
* Changed option of *SUNSimplify* *SUNTrace* from *True* to *False*.
* Made *SUNSimplify* trace also term proportional to the identity matrix when
* *SUNTrace* is set to *True*.
* *FeynCalc.m*:
    * Added support for *:>* to *OptionsSelect*.
    * Placed *FDr* and *CDr* in correct contexts.
    * Bugfixed check for integer arguments in *SUND* and *SUNDeltaContract: Added ExplicitSUNIndex*.
    * *SUND*: No longer set all *SUND[a,a,b]* to *0* if a is not an integer, only when
   a has head *SUNIndex*.
* *DiracSimplify.m*:  * Defined *print1*, *print2*, *print3*
* *OneLoop.m*: Changed a few debug printing statements.
* Fixed *SumOver* to comply with **FeynArts 3**.
* **PHI**:
    * As far as possible dropped using explicit contexts, use *MakeContext* instead.
    * Small fix of *ArgumentsSupply*.
    * Moved *FieldDerivative* and *CovariantFieldDerivative* (and *CDr* and *FDr*) into *HighEnergyPhysics/fctools/*.
    * Implemented compatibility with **FeynCalc**'s *PartialD*-operator notation.
    * Removed many comments. They don't give useful information and clutter things.
    * Changed the possible settings of *B0Evaluation* to strings to facilitate extensibility and reduce the number of defined symbols.
    * Introduced *LeutwylerJBarEvaluation* instead of *ExplicitLeutwylerJBar*.
    * Implemented above-threshold evaluation of *VeltmanB0* (and *LeutwylerJBar*).
    * Dropped *FANonCommutative*, *FAMetricTensorm*, *FAPolarizationVector*, *FAFourVector*, *FADiracMatrix*, *FAIndices*  in favour of *NonCommutative* in consistence with *FAPatch.m*.
    * Had *FAPatch.m* add *$FermionHeads* to *$NonCommuting* in *Setup.m*,
   as well as set *FeynCalcInternal -> False* for *FourVector*, *MetricTensor*,
   *DiracSlash*.
    * End all usage difinitions with a full stop.
    * Changed *Dot* to *DOT*.
* *Objects.m*:
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices*.
    * Changed to have head *ExplicitSUNIndex* on integers (instead of nothing) in compliance with **FeynCalc**.
    * *setLeftRightComponents* fixed to have *Explicit* in right context.
    * Fixed bug in *WriteOutUMatrices* causing *NM[a[x], UMatrix[b]] + UMatrix[UIdentity]* not to work (reported by P.Buettiker).
    * Fixed bug in *UIndicesSupply*, putting *DOT* in correct context.
    * Fixed bug in *UExp* (reported by Paul Buettiker):
      When zeros were in *$UExpansionCoefficients MM*, *UFieldMatrix* didn't work.
* *Utilities.m*:
    * Added support for *WFFactor* in *DiscardOrders* (Don't discard if order is not known).
    *  *MandelstamReduce* now has renormalized masses as default.
    *  Added first sketch of *PHIToLaTeX*.
* Palettes.m: LoadLagrangian now keeps lagrangians given as strings in context ``` Global` ``` (instead of ``` HighEnergyPhysics`PHI`Objects` ``` ).
* *Renormalization.m*:
    * Fixed small bug causing LeutwylerJBar causing problem with LeutwylerSigma.
    * Readded *C0Evaluation -> "none"*, *D0Evaluation -> "none"* to *Options[VeltmanExpand]*.
* *Couplings.m*:
    * Added *PHIModel* as option of *WFFactor*, *PMFactor*, *DCFactor*.
    * Added *Drop* as option of *DoSumOver*.
    * Fixed problem with *FCToFA* causing possible substitution of multiple pairs of identical indices in a product.
    * Added *DiracSlash* to *FCToFA*.
    * Dropped *Projection* in *FCToFA*, since *RemoveIntegerIndices* has been dropped.
    * Fixed bug in *XName* causing existing coupling vectors not to be found.
    * Fixed bug in *VerticesSpecifications*. Multiple order of a coupling are now correctly merged into e.g. one coupling with orders {2, 4} instead of two couplings. (*orderJoin*).
    * Fixed problem with *DiscardCT* and **FeynArts 3** .
    * Fixed bug in *FixCouplingIndices*. *SUNDelta*, *SUND* and *SUNF* are now also supported in coupling vectors.
    * Updated *DoSumOver* to comply with **FeynArts 3**.
    * Improved *WFFactor*, *DCFactor* and *PMFactor* to behave better if a file is not there.
    * *DCRenormalize* now correctly uses the inverse factor.

* *Channels.m*
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices* and *Projection*.
    * Fixed bug with *SU2F* in *SUNReduce*.
    * Added support for *ExplicitSUNIndex*.
* *PHIStart.m*
    * Dropped *RemoveIntegerIndices*.
    * Switched to *UNablaHatDelta* with "scalar weak source", remember to switch back if vectors or axial-vectors are needed.
*  *ChPTW34.m*: Fix missing comma in N29.
*  *ChPTW32.m*: Fix Typo (``` QuantumField` ``` instead of ```QuantumField```).


###  Version 4.1.1 (2001)
* Help System: Following the instructions above, the FeynCalc Book is now viewable via the
Mathematica help browser. It is possible to look up help pages on individual
functions by selecting them in a notebook with the cursor and then clicking
on AddOns in the help browser.
* **PHI/FeynArts**: Support for **FeynArts** through the new sub-package **PHI**, which is now fully integrated in **FeynCalc**. **PHI** adds support for Chiral Perturbation Theory including tools for dealing with a large number of Feynman rules, derivative couplings, field expansion, etc. Moreover, some examples of using **PHI** are provided which should also be generally instructive. The examples can be found at
http://www.feyncalc.org/examples/index.html. Information about **PHI** can be found at http://www.feyncalc.org/examples/phi/index.html.
* The *ReadProtected* Attribute has been removed from all functions.
* Moved the file *FeynCalcBook.nb* into the new directory *English* and
added the file *BrowserCategories.m* to allow lookup via the
Mathematica help browser.
* Changes in *FeynCalc.m*:
    * All **FeynCalc** definitions are now cleared upon reload,
  hopefully improved the way filenames and paths are determined,
    * Added support for loading from *~/.Mathematica*.
    * Added support for loading **PHI** and FeynArts.
    * Added *$Abbreviations*.
    * Added a few definitions to *DeltaFunction*.
    * Fixed bug in *DiracTrace* reported by A. Kyrieleis.
    * Fixed bug in *DiracTrace* causing *Tr[DiracSlash[p,p]]* to give p^2 instead of 4 p^2 (reported by W. Broniowski and L. Trueman and A. Krishna).
    * Fixed small display bug of *Spinor* reported by A. Krishna.
    * Added *FCIntegrate* and *FCNIntegrate* which are options of the new
  (still experimental) function *FeynmanDoIntegrals* fixed bug in the display definition for *Pair* causing infinite recursion.
   * Added two new functions (still very experimental) *FeynmanReduce* and *FeynmanDoIntegrals*.
   * Very small addition to *Integrate2*.
   * Added option *InitialFunction* to *FeynRule*.
   * Fixed bug in *ComplexConjugate*'s treatment of *DiracGamma[5]*,
reported by T.Rashba and V. Khotilovich.
   * Fixed bugs related to Mac OS's filesystem in *FeynCalc.m*, *FORM2FeynCalc.m*, *FeynCalc2FORM.m*, *OneLoop.m*, *PaVeReduce.m*, *RHI.m*, *SquareAmplitude.m*, *Write2.m*.
   * Fixed bug in *FeynCalc2FORM.m* reported by V. Khotilovich.
   * Fixed forgotten small bugs in *FeynCalcExternal.m*.
   * Changed *FeynCalcExternal.m*, *OneLoopSimplify.m*, *TID.m*
 to allow other symbols for *Dimension* than *D*.
   * Completely rewrote *FeynmanParametrize1.m*. It is still experimental, but in progress and intended to be much more general than *FeynmanParametrize.m*.
   * Small changes in *OneLoop.m*, *PaVeReduce.m* to write out to more readable file names.
   * Fixed forgotten Blank in *SimplifyPolyLog.m*.
   * Added the following new general utility functions:
*NumericQ1*, *Combinations*, *MLimit*, *TimedIntegrate*, *SelectSplit*.
   * Added check for integers in SU(N) related functions.
   * Small change in *TARCER.nb* to avoid name conflict with **FeynCalc** and **FeynArts**.
   * Various very small spelling fixes etc.

### Version 4.0 (2000)
   * Reorganized for open-source and extensibility.

### Version 3.0.1.1
   * Two bug-fixes for *OneLoop*.

### Version 3.0 (1998)
   * Typesetting features of **Mathematica 3.0**.

### Version 2.2beta9 (1995)
* Updated version of **FeynCalc** compatible with **Mathematica 2.2**.

### Version 2.2

### Version 1.13 (1992)

### Version 1.0 (1991)
   * Initial release written by Rolf Mertig.
