FeynCalc/Documentation/Markdown/FCLoopFindIntegralMappings.md, before:

## FCLoopFindIntegralMappings

`FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{int1, int2, ...}, {p1, p2, ...}]` finds mappings between scalar multiloop integrals `int1, int2, ...` that depend on the loop momenta `p1, p2, ...` using the algorithm of Alexey Pak [arXiv:1111.0868](https://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0868).

The current implementation is based on the `FindEquivalents` function from FIRE 6 [arXiv:1901.07808](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07808)

It is also possible to invoke the function as `FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[...], ...}, {FCTopology[...], ...}] or FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{FCTopology[...], ...}]`.

Notice that in this case the value of the option `FinalSubstitutions` is ignored, as replacement rules will be extracted directly from the definition of the topology.

### See also

[Overview](Extra/FeynCalc.md), [FCTopology](FCTopology.md), [GLI](GLI.md), [FCLoopToPakForm](FCLoopToPakForm.md), [FCLoopPakOrder](FCLoopPakOrder.md), [FCLoopFindTopologyMappings](FCLoopFindTopologyMappings.md)

### Examples

When given a list of `FeynAmpDenominator`-integrals, the function will merely group identical integrals into sublists

```mathematica
ints = {FAD[{p1, m1}], FAD[{p1 + q, m1}], FAD[{p1, m2}]}
```

$$\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{(\text{p1}+q)^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m2}^2}\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[ints, {p1}]
```

$$\left\{\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{(\text{p1}+q)^2-\text{m1}^2}\right\},\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m2}^2}\right\}\right\}$$

The following 3 integrals look rather different from each other, but are actually identical

```mathematica
ints = {FAD[p1] FAD[p1 - p3 - p4] FAD[p4] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[{p3, m1}] FAD[{p1 - p4, m1}]*
    FAD[{p1 + q1, 0}, {p1 + q1, 0}], FAD[p4] FAD[p1 - p3 + q1] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[p1 + p4 + q1]*
    FAD[{p3, m1}] FAD[{p1 + q1, m1}] FAD[{p1 + p4 + 2 q1, 0}, {p1 + p4 + 2 q1, 0}], 
   FAD[p1] FAD[p4 - 2 q1] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[p1 - p3 - p4 + 2 q1] FAD[{p3, m1}]*
    FAD[{p1 - p4 + 2 q1, m1}] FAD[{p1 + q1, 0}, {p1 + q1, 0}]}
```

$$\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \;\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)},\frac{1}{\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^4 \left((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)},\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p4}-2 \;\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)}\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[ints, {p1, p3, p4}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{ccc}
 \frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \;\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} & \frac{1}{\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^4 \left((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} & \frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p4}-2 \;\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

If the input is a list of `GLI`-integrals, `FCLoopFindIntegralMappings` will return a list containing two sublists. The former will be a list of replacement rules while the latter will contain all unique master integrals

```mathematica
ClearAll[topo1, topo2]; 
 
topos = {
   FCTopology[topo1, {SFAD[{p1, m^2}], SFAD[{p2, m^2}]}, {p1, p2}, {}, {}, {}], 
   FCTopology[topo2, {SFAD[{p3, m^2}], SFAD[{p4, m^2}]}, {p3, p4}, {}, {}, {}] 
  }
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{topo1},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2-m^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p2}^2-m^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p2}\},\{\},\{\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{topo2},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2-m^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p4}^2-m^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p3},\text{p4}\},\{\},\{\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

```mathematica
glis = {GLI[topo1, {1, 1}], GLI[topo1, {1, 2}], GLI[topo1, {2, 1}], GLI[topo2, {1, 1}], 
   GLI[topo2, {2, 2}]}
```

$$\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos]
```

$$\left\{\left\{G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1)\to G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\to G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}\right\}$$

This behavior can be turned off by setting the value of the option `List` to `True`

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos, List -> True]
```

$$\left\{\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}\right\}$$

In practice, one usually has a list of preferred integrals onto which one would like to map the occurring master integrals. Such integrals can be specified via the `PreferredIntegrals` options

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos, PreferredIntegrals -> {GLI[topo2, {1, 1}], 
    GLI[topo2, {2, 1}]}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{ccc}
 G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1) & G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) & G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) \\
 G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1) & G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) & G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2) \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

The indices of `GLI`s do not have to be integers

```mathematica
topos = {
   FCTopology[prop2LtopoG20, {SFAD[{{p1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 + q1, 0}, {m3^2, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p3 + q1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p1 - p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}]}, 
    {p1, p3}, {q1}, {}, {}], 
   FCTopology[prop2LtopoG21, {SFAD[{{p1, 0}, {m1^2, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 + q1, 0}, {m3^2, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p3 + q1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 - p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}]}, {p1, p3}, {q1}, {}, {}] 
  }
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2LtopoG20},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\{\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2LtopoG21},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\{\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[prop2LtopoG21, {0, n1, n2, n3, n4}], 
   GLI[prop2LtopoG20, {0, n1, n2, n3, n4}]}, topos]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{c}
 G^{\text{prop2LtopoG21}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4})\to G^{\text{prop2LtopoG20}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4}) \\
 G^{\text{prop2LtopoG20}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4}) \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

It is also possible to find mappings for factorizing integrals, provided that suitable products of integrals are given as preferred integrals

```mathematica
topos = {FCTopology[prop2Ltopo31313, {SFAD[{{
        I p1, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{I (p1 + q1), 0}, {-m1^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{
        I p3, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{I 
         (p3 + q1), 0}, {-m1^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{
        I (p1 - p3), 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}]}, {p1, p3}, {q1}, {SPD[q1, q1] -> m1^2}, {}], 
   FCTopology[tad1Ltopo2, {SFAD[{{I p1, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}]}, {p1}, {}, {SPD[q1,q1] -> m1^2}, {}]}
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2Ltopo31313},\left\{\frac{1}{(-\text{p1}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2+\text{m1}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-\text{p3}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+\text{m1}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\left\{\text{q1}^2\to \;\text{m1}^2\right\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{tad1Ltopo2},\left\{\frac{1}{(-\text{p1}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1}\},\{\},\left\{\text{q1}^2\to \;\text{m1}^2\right\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

Here we ask the function to map all products of two 1-loop tadpoles to `GLI[tad1Ltopo2,{1}]^2`

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[tad1Ltopo2, {1}]^2, 
   GLI[prop2Ltopo31313, {0, 0, 1, 0, 1}]}, topos, PreferredIntegrals -> {GLI[tad1Ltopo2, {1}]^2}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{c}
 G^{\text{prop2Ltopo31313}}(0,0,1,0,1)\to G^{\text{tad1Ltopo2}}(1)^2 \\
 G^{\text{tad1Ltopo2}}(1)^2 \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

Commit message:

Improved FCLoopFindIntegralMappings to return only relevant masters from the preferred list; Added memoization for the generation of the mapping rules.

FeynCalc/Documentation/Markdown/FCLoopFindIntegralMappings.md, after:

## FCLoopFindIntegralMappings

`FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{int1, int2, ...}, {p1, p2, ...}]` finds mappings between scalar multiloop integrals `int1, int2, ...` that depend on the loop momenta `p1, p2, ...` using the algorithm of Alexey Pak [arXiv:1111.0868](https://arxiv.org/abs/1111.0868).

The current implementation is based on the `FindEquivalents` function from FIRE 6 [arXiv:1901.07808](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.07808)

It is also possible to invoke the function as `FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[...], ...}, {FCTopology[...], ...}] or FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{FCTopology[...], ...}]`.

Notice that in this case the value of the option `FinalSubstitutions` is ignored, as replacement rules will be extracted directly from the definition of the topology.

The default output is a list of two lists. The first list contains mapping rules between different loop integrals, while the second list provides all unique master integrals extracted from the input.

An alternative output mode is activated when the option `List` is set to `True`. In this case the output is a list of lists, where each list contains master integrals that were identified to be identical.

The option `PreferredIntegrals` can be used to enforce the mapping onto a preferred set of master integral. Notice that the final result will only contain those preferred integrals, that are actually present in the input.

### See also

[Overview](Extra/FeynCalc.md), [FCTopology](FCTopology.md), [GLI](GLI.md), [FCLoopToPakForm](FCLoopToPakForm.md), [FCLoopPakOrder](FCLoopPakOrder.md), [FCLoopFindTopologyMappings](FCLoopFindTopologyMappings.md)

### Examples

When given a list of `FeynAmpDenominator`-integrals, the function will merely group identical integrals into sublists

```mathematica
ints = {FAD[{p1, m1}], FAD[{p1 + q, m1}], FAD[{p1, m2}]}
```

$$\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{(\text{p1}+q)^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m2}^2}\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[ints, {p1}]
```

$$\left\{\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2},\frac{1}{(\text{p1}+q)^2-\text{m1}^2}\right\},\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2-\text{m2}^2}\right\}\right\}$$

The following 3 integrals look rather different from each other, but are actually identical

```mathematica
ints = {FAD[p1] FAD[p1 - p3 - p4] FAD[p4] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[{p3, m1}] FAD[{p1 - p4, m1}]*
    FAD[{p1 + q1, 0}, {p1 + q1, 0}], FAD[p4] FAD[p1 - p3 + q1] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[p1 + p4 + q1]*
    FAD[{p3, m1}] FAD[{p1 + q1, m1}] FAD[{p1 + p4 + 2 q1, 0}, {p1 + p4 + 2 q1, 0}], 
   FAD[p1] FAD[p4 - 2 q1] FAD[p3 + q1] FAD[p1 - p3 - p4 + 2 q1] FAD[{p3, m1}]*
    FAD[{p1 - p4 + 2 q1, m1}] FAD[{p1 + q1, 0}, {p1 + q1, 0}]}
```

$$\left\{\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \;\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)},\frac{1}{\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^4 \left((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)},\frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p4}-2 \;\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)}\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[ints, {p1, p3, p4}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{ccc}
 \frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \;\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} & \frac{1}{\text{p4}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}+\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^4 \left((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} & \frac{1}{\text{p1}^2 \left(\text{p3}^2-\text{m1}^2\right) (\text{p1}+\text{q1})^4 (\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2 (\text{p4}-2 \;\text{q1})^2 (\text{p1}-\text{p3}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2 \left((\text{p1}-\text{p4}+2 \;\text{q1})^2-\text{m1}^2\right)} \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

If the input is a list of `GLI`-integrals, `FCLoopFindIntegralMappings` will return a list containing two sublists. The former will be a list of replacement rules while the latter will contain all unique master integrals

```mathematica
ClearAll[topo1, topo2]; 
 
topos = {
   FCTopology[topo1, {SFAD[{p1, m^2}], SFAD[{p2, m^2}]}, {p1, p2}, {}, {}, {}], 
   FCTopology[topo2, {SFAD[{p3, m^2}], SFAD[{p4, m^2}]}, {p3, p4}, {}, {}, {}] 
  }
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{topo1},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2-m^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p2}^2-m^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p2}\},\{\},\{\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{topo2},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2-m^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p4}^2-m^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p3},\text{p4}\},\{\},\{\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

```mathematica
glis = {GLI[topo1, {1, 1}], GLI[topo1, {1, 2}], GLI[topo1, {2, 1}], GLI[topo2, {1, 1}], 
   GLI[topo2, {2, 2}]}
```

$$\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos]
```

$$\left\{\left\{G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1)\to G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\to G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}\right\}$$

This behavior can be turned off by setting the value of the option `List` to `True`

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos, List -> True]
```

$$\left\{\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1),G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2),G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\right\},\left\{G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2)\right\}\right\}$$

In practice, one usually has a list of preferred integrals onto which one would like to map the occurring master integrals. Such integrals can be specified via the `PreferredIntegrals` option

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[glis, topos, PreferredIntegrals -> {GLI[topo2, {1, 1}], 
    GLI[topo2, {2, 1}]}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{ccc}
 G^{\text{topo1}}(1,1)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1) & G^{\text{topo1}}(1,2)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) & G^{\text{topo1}}(2,1)\to G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) \\
 G^{\text{topo2}}(1,1) & G^{\text{topo2}}(2,1) & G^{\text{topo2}}(2,2) \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

The indices of `GLI`s do not have to be integers

```mathematica
topos = {
   FCTopology[prop2LtopoG20, {SFAD[{{p1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 + q1, 0}, {m3^2, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p3 + q1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p1 - p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}]}, 
    {p1, p3}, {q1}, {}, {}], 
   FCTopology[prop2LtopoG21, {SFAD[{{p1, 0}, {m1^2, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 + q1, 0}, {m3^2, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], SFAD[{{p3 + q1, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}], 
     SFAD[{{p1 - p3, 0}, {0, 1}, 1}]}, {p1, p3}, {q1}, {}, {}] 
  }
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2LtopoG20},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\{\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2LtopoG21},\left\{\frac{1}{(\text{p1}^2-\text{m1}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2-\text{m3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{(\text{p3}^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+i \eta )},\frac{1}{((\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\{\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[prop2LtopoG21, {0, n1, n2, n3, n4}], 
   GLI[prop2LtopoG20, {0, n1, n2, n3, n4}]}, topos]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{c}
 G^{\text{prop2LtopoG21}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4})\to G^{\text{prop2LtopoG20}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4}) \\
 G^{\text{prop2LtopoG20}}(0,\text{n1},\text{n2},\text{n3},\text{n4}) \\
\end{array}
\right)$$

It is also possible to find mappings for factorizing integrals, provided that suitable products of integrals are given as preferred integrals

```mathematica
topos = {FCTopology[prop2Ltopo31313, {SFAD[{{
        I p1, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{I (p1 + q1), 0}, {-m1^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{
        I p3, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{I 
         (p3 + q1), 0}, {-m1^2, -1}, 1}], SFAD[{{
        I (p1 - p3), 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}]}, {p1, p3}, {q1}, {SPD[q1, q1] -> m1^2}, {}], 
   FCTopology[tad1Ltopo2, {SFAD[{{I p1, 0}, {-m3^2, -1}, 1}]}, {p1}, {}, {SPD[q1,q1] -> m1^2}, {}]}
```

$$\left\{\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{prop2Ltopo31313},\left\{\frac{1}{(-\text{p1}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p1}+\text{q1})^2+\text{m1}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-\text{p3}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p3}+\text{q1})^2+\text{m1}^2-i \eta )},\frac{1}{(-(\text{p1}-\text{p3})^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1},\text{p3}\},\{\text{q1}\},\left\{\text{q1}^2\to \;\text{m1}^2\right\},\{\}\right),\text{FCTopology}\left(\text{tad1Ltopo2},\left\{\frac{1}{(-\text{p1}^2+\text{m3}^2-i \eta )}\right\},\{\text{p1}\},\{\},\left\{\text{q1}^2\to \;\text{m1}^2\right\},\{\}\right)\right\}$$

Here we ask the function to map all products of two 1-loop tadpoles to `GLI[tad1Ltopo2,{1}]^2`

```mathematica
FCLoopFindIntegralMappings[{GLI[tad1Ltopo2, {1}]^2, 
   GLI[prop2Ltopo31313, {0, 0, 1, 0, 1}]}, topos, PreferredIntegrals -> {GLI[tad1Ltopo2, {1}]^2}]
```

$$\left(
\begin{array}{c}
 G^{\text{prop2Ltopo31313}}(0,0,1,0,1)\to G^{\text{tad1Ltopo2}}(1)^2 \\
 G^{\text{tad1Ltopo2}}(1)^2 \\
\end{array}
\right)$$
